# DataIncubator
Files contain images

I chose to explore the publicly available demographics data of the American DHS (Demographic and Health Surveys), and to focus on Indian demographics, as I am extremely interested yet critical of the data one can found on the internet on such important topics as family and domestic abuse, and as this type of data can be so easily manipulated. I have decided to treat family demographics in order to achieve a better understanding of the way education of women and their entrance in the workforce can be closely related to the economic growth of a country and how one can influence the other. I believe that this project can be useful not only for the government but also for companies and private investors, as understanding the mechanics of development is a pre-requisite for a country to change and evolve for the better. This project can also help us understand better economic mechanisms like the fact that when women are educated and enter the workforce, wages go up.  In a country like India, where corruption and conservatism are still prevalent, I think that it is crucial to have unbiased trustworthy data to build the future on. 

In order to build my analysis, I decided to extract the raw data of the DHS and not the pre-analyzed one which was available both on the DHS files and on the Hindustan Times (Indian newspaper) sources, as the latest can be a source of misinterpretation and of bias. For example, the Hindustan Times concludes that in some states like Himachal Pradesh for example, only 2% of women have experienced abuse, and that to me clearly shows the danger of trusting blindly pre-analyzed data : before making a conclusion like that, one must question the method of the data collection as well as psychological factors such as the social taboo and the fear of speaking. Therefore, I think that this project can also help me develop a critical approach to data and help me question it : in the case of domestic abuse for example, to what extent can we trust the data ? 

My first approach would be to identify social markers which would give us insights into the actual question of why educated women fail to translate their career into what they desire. That would be achieved by regressing the values of markers and bootstrapping them to dependent markers, for example, marriage age and latency of marriage to the first pregnancy. These indicators are crucial as they can predict far more factors than the questionnaire itself. Other examples could be the prevalence of sexual violence in married life. Such situations could lead to a dominant hierarchy in the society where motivation could be lost due to traumatic experience and development of abstinence from work. I am using non linear curve fitting, polynomial fits, logistic regression and frequency distribution so far. In the future I would use Support vector machines and hierarchical clustering to identify commonly clustered groups with identical eigen factors or possibly predictors.   Preliminary analysis suggests strong links to women education and marriage, sexual violence and education of male population, among other things

So far, I have started to treat 10 GB of data, which correspond to India, but in the future I would be keen to deepen my analysis and compare it with other countries by analyzing the 4 other countries’ data publicly available on the DHS. This analysis could result in a better global understanding of the correlation between women’s education and career and the development of a country, and help us identify more precise predictive analysis of economic growth and help us invest better in financial markets.  
